---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Razorthink Foresight
description: Powerful demand forecasting & planning software
---

# Razorthink Foresight

Razorthink Foresight is a cutting-edge demand forecasting and planning software designed to adapt to your unique
business needs. Our solution connects to virtually any data source, creating targeted models for accurate predictions.

Forecasting and Demand Planning that:

- adapts to your business
- delivers you immediate value
- makes your business smarter

### Overview

#### Connect to any datasource

We'll incorporate data wherever you have it, in whatever format. Whether it's in an ERP system, out on a public website,
or sitting in spreadsheets. We'll show you how to quickly clean it, map it, and anything else you need to do to get
going. Quickly.

#### Use targeted models

Your business is unique. Slapping canned models, however sophisticated, just doesn't cut it. We craft targeted models
for your forecasting and planning needs. And tune it as you grow into automating your processes.

#### Deploy in a week

We'll have you up and running in a week. Once we have data sources identified, and any uniqueness in your business
clarified, we can typically get you your first forecasts and plans within a week.

### Features

#### Intelligent Data Ingestion with Foresight

##### Connect to any data source

Foresight lets you connect to any datasource. It provides out-of-the-box connectivity to ERP systems such as Netsuite
and Accumatica, channel API's such as Amazon and Walmart, demographic and economic data, and social media data. In
addition, you can quickly add custom data sources or files with minimal effort.

##### Accept any format

Foresight can accept data in any format, including structured and streaming data. Where data is not available in a
standard format, Foresight tools help you rapidly map attributes to target schemas, which automates the translation
process.

##### Manage dimensions and mappings in a visual interface

Managing Dimensions and mapping of dimension values from multiple sources is a cinch with Foresight. This allows you to
integrate data from multiple sources without having to write costly pre-processing code. In addition, Foresight allows
the management of dimension attributes which need to be extracted from multiple sources, or computed.

##### Automated creation of datasets for forecasting

Foresight can easily create forecasting datasets by combining dimensional and operational data into multi-attribute time
series. This allows you to rapidly incorporate multiple signals into your forecasting models, in addition to standard
historical data.

##### Cleanse data and impute missing values automatically

Foresight has built in tools to impute missing and outlier values intelligently. This allows you to create clean
datasets that are essential to forecasting. The cleansing process can be automated once set up.

#### Targeted Models with Foresight

##### Multiple signals in forecast

Forecast lets you go well beyond traditional time series and incorporate multiple signals into your forecast. This could
range from macroeconomic and demographic data, any competitor information, and changes in market.

##### Incorporate user inputs and manual forecasts

Foresight lets you make directional adjustments to forecasts - this can take the form of changing the importance of key
attributes, or of direct adjustments. Foresight also allows you to create manual forecasts for comparison and tracking.

##### Automate model selection

Foresight automates model selection based on multiple criteria. Instead of simply picking the best from a set of canned
models, Foresight manages logic that targets appropriate algorithms to each circumstance.

##### Use meta models in forecasting

Your demand processes are often complex with multiple channels, or require triage between forecasts at different levels.
Foresight uses meta models to integrate multiple dependent forecasts to provide you a better prediction.

##### Forecast new products

Foresight provides new product forecasts using a variety of techniques, ranging from similarity and lineages, as well as
segmentation from preferences. This is done in a simple and intuitive manner that allows you to bootstrap your
forecasts.

#### Conversational AI

##### Natural language driven

Use natural language to ask questions ranging from specific characteristics of your products, to details about
forecasts, their performance, and multiple scenarios.

##### Rapid template deployment

New templates that ask new kinds of questions can be rapidly created and uploaded, without affecting the underlying AI -
these could be questions and answers which are specific to your business.

##### Drive actions through conversations

Our conversational AI comes with an actuation function that allows you to initiate actions through it - these may
involve initiating a purchase order, overriding a forecast, or approvals that you could trigger from a conversation.

##### Use external tools for conversations

Foresight allows you to integrate the conversation API's with external messaging platforms that allow you to work when
you're not connected to the system.

##### Self contained data

The models that process your data run within the Foresight ecosystem, and do not use external services like chat GPT.
This provides you security and additional levels of control of specificity.

#### Demand Planning and Inventory Optimization

##### Multiple methods for inventory planning

Foresight provides you multiple methods for inventory management at multiple warehouses and retail stocking locations.
These can be based on service levels, safety stock or safety lead times. Get advance warning when inventory is likely to
run out.

##### Automate purchase orders

Foresight allows you to quickly set rules to automate purchase orders that do not need additional reviews. This allows
you to focus on your more important products rather than spend time on repetitive tasks.

##### Manage custom constraints

Most businesses will have custom constraints around purchase orders, including truck load optimization, minimum order
quantities around total orders, or time period. Foresight allows you to manage these constraints to provide you a better
plan.

##### Use multiple leadtimes

Leadtimes do not stay consistent. Foresight allows you to manage periodic variations in leadtime or other parameters to
fine tune your forecast.

##### Manual purchase order edits

Foresight allows you to do manual edits of purchase orders, and recomputes the plans dynamically to adjust to your
edits.

#### Forecast Scenario Management

##### Manage multiple forecast scenarios

Scenario management allows you to compare multiple scenarios, and with a pre-specified baseline. This is a significant
help in your decision making process.

##### Upload externally created scenario

Uploading externally created scenarios, for sanity, or tracking purposes is a key feature of Foresight. This is
especially valuable to an organization that wants to compare financial forecasts with ongoing operational performance
and forecasts.

##### Evaluate the impact of promotions and pricing events

Foresight scenarios allow you to add promotional and pricing events at various levels of the hierarchy, allowing you to
sandbox the analysis of various tactics.

##### Evaluate product introduction

Foresight scenarios allow you to include additional products or exclude certain products from your forecast, thus
allowing you to understand the impact of product introductions and end of life.

##### Manage and switch working forecasts

The working forecast gives you the basis for your operational decisions. This forecast can be switched to a new run of
the baseline forecast or a scenario that you'd like to use for computations.